This lesson we're going to introduce you to Ekla script 6.
So this is the latest big version change with javascript.
Now javascript was started in 1995 and throughout the years there was various changes within the code.
We got more functionality as the years went on and there were a number of things that developers were
asking for.
And then along came 2015 and the sixth edition.
So this was the big change.
M-A script 6 ESX and later it was renamed to X script 2015.
So I know there's quite a few names there but this is the latest big version change in javascript and
now it's planned that ongoing there's going to be annual changes to Javascript.
And also not to worry that all of the course content earlier it still applies.
So the javascript core fundamental concepts are still applicable when you're writing javascript.
Except now we've got some more options.
We've got some more functions that are available to us and a lot of them are very beneficial they're
going to help us write code faster and better.
So we're just looking at Wikipedia and there's a whole history of javascript here and there's a good
summary of what's new and what the changes are.
And the other thing to keep in mind when you're looking at javascript changes is that even though that
there might be something you coming out with the code that Nessus that doesn't necessarily mean that
you should be jumping onboard and start using that brand new language syntax that just came out.
And the reason of course is compatibility because browsers update and not all of them will apply to
all of those javascript updates in the same time period.
So you're always going to end up with having incompatibilities and compatibility issues for the different
functionalities so we've got a listing here.
This is a really good list.
King Gox get hub IO compatible table ESX I'll provide you a link for this.
So basically on the left hand side we've got the different features.
So these are all the syntax features.
We've got some bindings here functions built ins built in extensions subclasses and a whole lot more
so you can see there's a lot of categories of changes and also there's a lot of different browsers and
compatibility for those changes within the browsers is what we're looking at here.
So I know this is a little bit overwhelming.
And for the most part there's only a few browsers and the really old browsers that you really do have
to worry about.
And also there's ways of compiling your scripts six or six script and really compiling it into an earlier
version.
So what Babel will do is it will allow you to write code here on the left hand side and it will present
it in a format that's compatible with earlier versions of javascript.
I'll give you a sneak peek into what we're going to be looking at in the next lesson so I get to write
some ESX code.
And we did have some changes with our block scopes.
So earlier throughout the course as well whenever we're declaring variables we do the R and then we
do assignment value and then we can do something like a string like hello world.
And notice here on the right hand side we've got use strict.
So what use strict does is it forces javascript into strict mode where it's the code has to be written
properly.
So basically it disables features that are confusing.
It catches common errors and coding bloopers and also prevents different errors and it prevents different
unsafe actions that can get taken especially within the global scope.
And this is one of the big changes that we have is that we have these changes to the block scope.
So instead of having all of her variables declared in the global scope we've got block scope and we
are going to look at that in the upcoming lesson.
But just to illustrate whatever I type him Konst a equals hello world we get the older variation where
we've got we are a equals hello world so we can see that as well so if I copy and paste this and if
I do another variable there.
So it's just and the statements with the semi-colons.
We see that the constants all get translated into v v.
So basically the code on the right hand side you can copy and paste it into your javascript and you
can present it to older browsers and have it compatible with those older browsers with the older syntax
of javascript and we are going to be looking at in the next lesson more about block scope and block
scope variables.
So this was just a short introduction to what's new a javascript and what we are going to look at in
the upcoming lessons.
So after the video take a minute and go over to babbel J.S. IO check out the Web site you can go ahead
and try it out.
And as we progress through the lessons you can type in some of that brand new iOS ESX code and see it
being translated into earlier version compatible code and also take a look through Wikipedia where we've
got the history of javascript so you can get more familiar with different features that have been added
and when they've been added and so on.
And also lastly as we go through the different features that are new.
With ESX you can take a look at you can see within this compatibility chart what exactly is compatible
with what browsers and the next lesson we're going to jump into.
BLOCK scope variables.